# Lab 2 - Build an instructions-based Geo locator game agent using Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit

**Estimated Time: 30 mins**

## Objective

The objective of this lab is to empower participants to build a
declarative agent for Microsoft 365 Copilot using Microsoft 365 Agents
Toolkit. By completing the lab, participants will create a geo-location
game that provides a fun and educational break from work. The lab
focuses on understanding the structure of declarative agents,
configuring them with instructions, and integrating them into the
Microsoft 365 ecosystem for customized Copilot interactions.

## Solution

Participants will install Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit in Visual Studio
Code and set up their development environment. Using a template, they
will scaffold a declarative agent named Geo Locator Game. They will
customize the agent's instructions and update its configuration files,
such as instruction.txt and manifest.json. The lab also guides
participants in enhancing the agent with unique identifiers, custom
icons, and testing functionality. The result is a fully functional,
engaging Copilot application tailored to deliver clues about cities
while integrating seamlessly with Microsoft 365.

## Exercise 1: Set up your development environment for Microsoft 365 Copilot

### Task 1: Install Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit

1.  Open Visual Studio Code and click on the **Extensions** toolbar
    button.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image1.png)

2.  Search for +++Microsoft 365 agents+++ and locate **Microsoft 365
    Agents Toolkit**.

    ![image](./media/image2.png)

3.  Select **Install**.

    ![image](./media/image3.png)

4.  Once the installation is complete, the **Microsoft 365 Agents
    Toolkit** icon will appear on the left navigation bar.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image4.png)

	>[!note] Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit is an evolution of
	Teams Toolkit. It is in a transition phase and at places it shows up as
	Teams toolkit and at places it shows up as Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit.

## Exercise 2: First declarative agent

In this lab, you'll build a simple declarative agent using Microsoft 365
Agents Toolkit for Visual Studio Code. Your agent is designed to give
you a fun and educational break from work by helping you explore cities
across the globe. It presents abstract clues for you to guess a city,
with fewer points awarded the more clues you use. At the end, your final
score will be revealed.

In this exercise you will learn:

- What is a declarative agent for Microsoft 365 Copilot

- Create a declarative agent using Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit template

- Customize the agent to create the geo locator game using instructions

- Learn how to run and test your app

- For bonus exercise, you will need a SharePoint teams site

**Introduction**

Declarative agents leverage the same scalable infrastructure and
platform of Microsoft 365 Copilot, tailored specifically to meet focus
on a special area of your needs. They function as subject matter experts
in a specific area or business need, allowing you to use the same
interface as a standard Microsoft 365 Copilot chat while ensuring they
focus exclusively on the specific task at hand.

Welcome on board to building your own declarative agent ! Let's dive in
and make your Copilot work magic!

In this lab you will start out building a declarative agent using
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit with a default template used in the tool.
This is to help you get started with something. Next, you will modify
your agent to be focused on a geo location game.

The goal of your AI is to provide a fun break from work while helping
you learn about different cities around the world. It offers abstract
clues for you to identify a city. The more clues you need, the fewer
points you earn. At the end of the game, it will reveal your final
score.

    ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image5.png)

You will also give your agent some files to refer to a secret diary üïµüèΩ
and a map üó∫Ô∏è to give more challenges to the player.

So, let's begin

**Anatomy of a Declarative agent**

You will see as we develop more and more extensions to Copilot, that in
the end what you will build is collection of few files in a zip file
which we will refer to as an app package that you will then install and
use. So, it's important you have a basic understanding of what the app
package consists of. The app package of a declarative agent is like a
Teams app if you have built one before with additional elements. See the
table to see all the core elements. You will also see that the app
deployment process is very similar to deploying a Teams app.



**Note:** You can add reference data from SharePoint, OneDrive, Web
search etc. and add extension capabilities to a declarative agent like
plugins and connectors. You will learn how to add a plugin in the
upcoming labs in this path.

**Capabilities of a Declarative agent**

You can enhance the agent's focus on context and data by not only adding
instructions but also specifying the knowledge base it should access.
They are called capabilities and there are three types of capabilities
supported.

- **Microsoft Graph Connectors** - Pass connections of Graph connectors
  to the agent, allowing the agent to access and utilize the connector's
  knowledge.

- **OneDrive and SharePoint** - Provides URLs of files and sites to
  agent, for it to gain access to those contents.

- **Web search** - Enables or disables web content as part of the
  agent's knowledge base.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image6.png)

**One Drive and SharePoint**

URLs should be full path to SharePoint items (site, document library,
folder, or file). You can use the "Copy direct link" option in
SharePoint to get the full path or files and folders. To achieve this,
right-click on the file or folder and select Details. Navigate to Path
and click on the copy icon. Not specifying the URLs, the entire corpus
of OneDrive and SharePoint content available to the logged in user will
be used by the agent.

**Microsoft Graph Connector**

Not specifying the connections, the entire corpus of Graph Connectors
content available to the logged in user will be used by the agent.

**Web search**

At the moment you cannot pass specific websites or domains, and this
acts only as a toggle on and off to use web.

## Exercise 3: Scaffold a declarative agent from template**

You can use just any editor to create a declarative agent if you know
the structure of the files in the app package mentioned above. But
things are easier if you use a tool like Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit to
not only create these files for you but also help you deploy and publish
your app. So, to keep things as simple as possible you will use
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit.

### Task 1: Use Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit to create a declarative agent app

1.  Go to the Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit extension in your Visual
    Studio Code editor and select **Create a New App.**

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image7.png)

2.  A panel opens up where you need to select **Agent** from the list of
    project types.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image8.png)

3.  Next, you will be asked to choose the app feature of Copilot Agent.
    Choose **declarative agent**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image9.png)

4.  Next, you will be asked to choose want to create a basic declarative
    agent or one with an API plugin. Choose the **No Plugin** option.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image10.png)

5.  Next, select the **Default folder** option for specifying where the
    project folder has to be created.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image11.png)

6.  Next, give it an application name +++**Geo Locator Game**+++ and
    select Enter.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image12.png)

	The project will be created in a few seconds in the folder you mentioned
	and will open in a new project window of Visual Studio Code. This is
	your working folder.

7.  If a prompt appears regarding the trustworthiness of the source,
    click on **Yes, I trust the authors.**

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image13.png)

	![](./media/image14.png)

Well done! You have successfully set up the base declarative agent! Now,
proceed to examine the files contained within to be able to customize it
to make the geo locator game app.

### Task 2: Set up accounts in Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit

1.  Now select the Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit icon in the left
    Under **Accounts** click **Sign in to Microsoft 365** and log in
    with your **User1 credentials** under the **Azure Portal** section
    in the **Resources** tab.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image15.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image16.png)

2.  A browser window will pop up and offer to log into Microsoft 365.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image17.png)

3.  Select **Allow access** in the Security Alert dialog.

    ![A screenshot of a computer security alert AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image18.png)

4.  When the browser window says "You are signed in now and close this
    page", please do so.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image19.png)

5.  Verify that the **Custom App Upload Enabled** checker has a green
    checkmark.

    ![image](./media/image20.png)

### Task 3: Understanding the files in the app


1.  The file of interest for our lab is primarily
    the **appPackage/instruction.txt** file which is the core directives
    needed for your agent. It's a plain text file and you can write
    natural language instructions in it.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image21.png)

2.  Another important file is **appPackage/declarativeAgent.json** where
    there is a schema to be followed to extend Microsoft 365 Copilot
    with the new declarative agent. Let's look at what properties the
    schema of this file has.

    - The $schema is the schema reference

    - The version is the schema version

    - The name key represents the name of the declarative agent.

    - The description provides a description.

    - The instructions the path to the **instructions.txt** file which
      holds directives which will determine the operational behavior.
      You can also put your instructions as plain text as a value here.
      But for this lab we will use the **instructions.txt** file.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image22.png)

3.  Another important file is the **appPackage/manifest.json** file,
    which contains crucial metadata, including the package name, the
    developer‚Äôs name, and references to the copilot agents utilized by
    the application. The following section from the manifest.json file
    illustrates these details:

	```
	"copilotAgents": {

	"declarativeAgents": \[

	{

	"id": "declarativeAgent",

	"file": "declarativeAgent.json"

	}

	\]

	},
	```

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image23.png)

4.  You could also update the logo files color.png and outline.png to
    make it match your application's brand. In today's lab you will
    change **color.png** icon for the agent to stand out.

## Exercise 4: Update instructions and icons

### Task 1: Update icons and manifests

1.  First, we will replace the logo. We will replace the
    image **color.png** in the project with a new one. Copy the
    image **color.png** located in **C:\LabFiles** and replace the image
    of same name in the folder **appPackage** in your root project(The
    path should be **C:\Users\Student\TeamsApps\Geo Locator
    Game\appPackage**).

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image24.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image25.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image26.png)

2.  Next, go to the file **appPackage/manifest.json** in your root
    project and find the node **copilotAgents**. Update the id value of
    the declarativeAgents array's first entry
    from declarativeAgent to +++dcGeolocator+++ to make this ID unique.

	```
	"copilotAgents": {

	"declarativeAgents": \[

	{

	"id": "dcGeolocator",

	"file": "declarativeAgent.json"

	}

	\]

	},
	```

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image27.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image28.png)

3.  Next, go to the file **appPackage/instruction txt** and copy paste
    the below instruction to overwrite the existing contents of the
    file.

	```
	System Role: You are the game host for a geo-location guessing game.
	Your goal is to provide the player with clues about a specific city
	and guide them through the game until they guess the correct answer.
	You will progressively offer more detailed clues if the player guesses
	incorrectly. You will also reference PDF files in special rounds to
	create a clever and immersive game experience.

	Game play Instructions:

	Game Introduction Prompt

	Use the following prompt to welcome the player and explain the rules:

	Welcome to the Geo Location Game! I‚Äôll give you clues about a city,
	and your task is to guess the name of the city. After each wrong
	guess, I‚Äôll give you a more detailed clue. The fewer clues you use,
	the more points you score! Let‚Äôs get started. Here‚Äôs your first clue:

	Clue Progression Prompts

	Start with vague clues and become progressively specific if the player
	guesses incorrectly. Use the following structure:

	Clue 1: Provide a general geographical clue about the city (e.g.,
	continent, climate, latitude/longitude).

	Clue 2: Offer a hint about the city‚Äôs landmarks or natural features
	(e.g., a famous monument, a river).

	Clue 3: Give a historical or cultural clue about the city (e.g.,
	famous events, cultural significance).

	Clue 4: Offer a specific clue related to the city‚Äôs cuisine, local
	people, or industry.

	Response Handling

	After the player‚Äôs guess, respond accordingly:

	If the player guesses correctly, say:

	That‚Äôs correct! You‚Äôve guessed the city in \[number of clues\] clues
	and earned \[score\] points. Would you like to play another round?

	If the guess is wrong, say:

	Nice try! \[followed by more clues\]

	PDF-Based Scenario

	For special rounds, use a PDF file to provide clues from a historical
	document, traveler's diary, or ancient map:

	This round is different! I‚Äôve got a secret document to help us. I‚Äôll
	read clues from this \[historical map/traveler‚Äôs diary\] and guide you
	to guess the city. Here‚Äôs the first clue:

	Reference the specific PDF to extract details:

	Traveler's Diary PDF,Historical Map PDF.

	Use emojis where necessary to have friendly tone.

	Scorekeeping System

	Track how many clues the player uses and calculate points:

	1 clue: 10 points

	2 clues: 8 points

	3 clues: 5 points

	4 clues: 3 points

	End of Game Prompt

	After the player guesses the city or exhausts all clues, prompt:

	Would you like to play another round, try a special challenge?
	```

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image29.png)

4.  Notice this line in **appPackage/declarativeAgent.json**:

	```
	"instructions": "$\[file('instruction.txt')\]",
	```

	This brings in your instructions from the **instruction.txt** file. If
	you want to modularize your packaging files, you can use this technique
	in any of the JSON files in the **appPackage** folder.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image30.png)

### Task 2 : Add conversation starters

You can enhance user engagement with the declarative agent by adding
conversation starters to it.

Some of the benefits of having conversation starters are:

- **Engagement**: They help initiate interaction, making users feel more
  comfortable and encouraging participation.

- **Context Setting**: Starters set the tone and topic of the
  conversation, guiding users on how to proceed.

- **Efficiency**: By leading with a clear focus, starters reduce
  ambiguity, allowing the conversation to progress smoothly.

- **User Retention**: Well-designed starters keep users interested,
  encouraging repeat interactions with the AI.

1.  Open file **declarativeAgent.json** and right after
    the instructions node add a comma press enter, and paste below code.

	```
	"conversation_starters": \[

	{

	"title": "Getting Started",

	"text":"I am ready to play the Geo Location Game! Give me a city to
	guess, and start with the first clue."

	},

	{

	"title": "Ready for a Challenge",

	"text": "Let us try something different. Can we play a round using the
	travelers diary?"

	},

	{

	"title": "Feeling More Adventurous",

	"text": "I am in the mood for a challenge! Can we play the game using
	the historical map? I want to see if I can figure out the city from
	those ancient clues."

	}

	\]
	```

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image31.png)

	Now all the changes are done to the agent, it's time to test it.

2.  Go to **Files** from the top bar and click on the **Save All.**

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image32.png)

### Task 3: Test the app

1.  To test the app, go to the Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit extension
    in Visual Studio Code. This will open up the left pane.
    Under **LIFECYCLE** select **Provision**. You can see the value of
    Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit here, as it makes publishing so simple.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image33.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image34.png)

2.  If prompted, sign in with your credentials.

	![A screen shot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image35.png)

3.  In this step Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit will package up all the
    files inside the appPackage folder as a zip file and install the
    declarative agent to your own app catalog.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image36.png)

4.  Open a browser and navigate to
    +++https://m365.cloud.microsoft/chat/+++ into your
    developer tenant. Open the Geo Locator Game from the left pane.

    ![image](./media/image37.png)

5.  Once launched, you will be in this focused chat window with the
    agent. And you will see the conversation starters as marked below:

    ![image](./media/image38.png)

6.  Select one of the conversation starters and it will fill your
    compose message box with the starter prompt, just waiting for you to
    hit "Enter". It is still only your assistant and will wait for you
    to take action.

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image39.png)

7.  Try answering the question and exploring the game that you
    developed.

## Summary:

In this lab, we have learnt to build a declarative agent using the
Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit and test the agent‚Äôs functionality.
